---
layout: post
title: Publicizing the Geek Gala (a.k.a Project Benson)
subtitle: "Wear the label proudly"
---

## Acknowledgements

After putting off writing this blog post for the longest time, I have decided to finally take the plunge and do it. Many thanks to [@ultimatist](https://github.com/ultimatist) for the many gentle nudges and occasional elbow drive to prod me along.
_____________________________
## Introduction and Context

At this time, I am enrolled in a Data Science Training program following a 'bootcamp' model offered by an educational institution named [METIS](https://www.thisismetis.com/), a daughter company of Kaplan.

The first project that we ever did at Metis was called Project 01 Benson. It was assigned on the first day of the bootcamp and was due six days later. Immersive indeed..

This was primarily an exercise in data cleaning, wrangling, gleaning, massaging, and presenting.
The skills that we learned here were used extensively in the following [two projects](1).
_____________________________
## The task

On Day 1 of the bootcamp, the students were given a link to the New York City subway system's [MTA Turnstile data](http://web.mta.info/developers/turnstile.html).

The prompt: An executive from a non-profit organization called *Women Tech, Women Yes!* approaches us. They host an annual gala to raise awareness and promote female participation in the tech industry. They have volunteers that go out to the subways every year *(hence, the turnstile data)* to distribute free tickets at subway stations. However, they have been suffering from low audience turnout and are hoping data scientists can make some magic happen and turn their event into a success.

____________________________
## Laying out a plan

Data scientists aren't magicians. We are scientists. We explore data to learn truths about the world and leverage those truths to inform data-driven decision making. So, me and my partner [Boying Liu](https://github.com/boyingliu) began to lay out a plan. Given the turnstile data, we wanted to come up with a system to rank the New York subway station foot traffic and deliver a schedule that would maximize the use of volunteer man-hours because we assume that non-profit organizations are limited in human resources.

____________________________
## Data Analysis

This was my first time (other than bootcamp basic pre-work tutorials) that I had used panda. Learning how pandas syntax worked was initially quite difficult. I struggled for quite a while with the proper syntax for filtering dataframes. Stack Overflow, usually super helpful, wasn't quite cutting it for me.

And then I learnt about the existence of documentation...
	- Quick Note: I didn't have much of a technical background at this point. I had a fair amount of excel skills that I taught myself and had started self-learning Python in earnest in April 2017 because I was told that Metis had a rigorous admissions test which included some basic python programming exercises. But the only computer science class I had ever taken was CS 101 in 2009 (some 8 years ago) at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

Once I learnt what documentation is, it was smooth sailing. It was an MVP and hastily put together, but I highly value what I got out of this project.

The end result was a schedule to guide the fictional Women Tech Women Yes! board. We gave them the data science; now, maybe they should start thinking about re-branding.

All the data and data-analysis can be found on the Github repo below.

### [Project 1 Repo](https://github.com/farhaanshaikh19/metis_projects/tree/master/01-Benson)


[1] At the time of this writing, Project 03 McNulty was completed just a few days ago and there will be a blog post on that in due time.